In the previous video,
we discussed episodic problems.
In many problems however,
the agent environment interaction
continues without end.
Today, we will see
how such problems can
be formulated as
continuing tasks.
In this video, you will learn to
differentiate between
episodic and continuing tasks,
formulate returns for continuing
tasks using discounting,
and describe how returns at
successive time steps are
related to each other.
Let's look at
the differences between
episodic and continuing tasks.
As we discussed earlier,
episodic tasks break
up into episodes.
Every episode in an episodic task
must end in a terminal state.
The next episode begins
independently of how
the last episode ended.
The return at time step t is
the sum of rewards
until termination.
In contrast, continuing tasks
cannot be broken up into
independent episodes.
The interaction goes
on continually.
There are no terminal states.
To make this more concrete,
consider a smart thermostat
which regulates
the temperature of a building.
This can be formulated
as a continuing task
since the thermostat never
stops interacting
with the environment.
The state could be
the current temperature
along with details of
the situation like the time of
day and the number of
people in the building.
There are just two actions,
turn on the heater
or turn it off.
The reward to be minus one
every time someone has to
manually adjust the temperature
and zero otherwise.
To avoid negative reward,
the thermostat would learn to
anticipate the
user's preferences.
So how can we formulate
the return for continuing tasks?
We can try to sum up
all the future rewards as
we did for episodic tasks.
But now, we're summing
over an infinite sequence.
This return might not be finite.
So how can we modify this sum
so that is always finite?
One solution is to discount
future rewards by a factor
Gamma called the discount rate.
Gamma is at least zero,
but less than one.
The return formulation
can then be
modified to include discounting.
The effect of discounting
on the return is simple,
immediate rewards contribute
more to the some.
Rewards far into
the future contribute
less because they
are multiplied by
Gamma raised to
successively larger powers
of k. Intuitively,
this choice makes sense.
A dollar today is worth more
to you than a dollar in a year.
We can concisely write
this sum as this expression,
which is guaranteed to be
finite. Let's see why?
Assume R_max is
the maximum reward
our aging can receive
at any time step.
We can now upper bound the return
G_t by replacing
every reward with R_ max.
Since R_max is just a
constant we can pull it
out of the summation.
Note that the second factor is
just a geometric series and
the geometric series evaluates to
one divided by one minus Gamma,
R_max times one divided
by one minus Gamma is
finite and is
an upper bound on G_t.
So we know G_t is finite.
Now, let's look at the effect of
the discount factor on
the behavior of the agent.
We can look at
the two extreme cases
when Gamma equals zero and
when Gamma approaches one.
When Gamma equals
zero the return is
just the reward at
the next time step.
So the agent is
shortsighted and only
cares about immediate
expected reward.
On the other hand,
when Gamma approaches one,
the immediate and
future rewards are
weighted nearly
equally in the return.
The agent in this case
is more farsighted.
Finally, let's discuss
a simple but important
property of the return.
It can be written recursively.
Let's factor out Gamma starting
from the second term in our sum.
Amazingly, the sequence in
parentheses is the return
on the next time step.
So we can just replace
it with G_t plus 1.
Now, we have a recursive
equation with G_t on
the left and G_t
plus 1 on the right.
This simple equation is more
powerful than it seems.
In future videos, we'll exploit
this equation to design
learning algorithms.
To recap, we learned about
continuing tasks where
the agent environment interaction
goes on indefinitely.
Discounting is used to ensure
returns are finite and
we saw that returns
can be defined
recursively. See you next time.